The Web (broken pantoum)
Sat Oct  9 23:13:38 2010

"The long-gone goblins loom ahead, the deadly, that we thought were dead"  --Walt Kelly

I am never late, I always arrive precisely when I mean to.
I stand on the crumbling bridge
and face the elder horrors alone.
While everyone else
runs for the light, crying in terror and sadness, 
it is my ankle 
that the whip wraps around.

When the whip wraps around
bellows from the pit 
"the deadly, that we thought were dead"
I remember those fiery swords.

I am the configuration wizard, 
the sin-eater, the finder of lost files.

They say if a man were to see the true form of the network, he would go mad.
I am the sin-eater, the finder of lost files.

Some flows are unchartable.
(They say if a man were to see the true form of the network, he would go mad.)
Some acronyms must never be pronounced phonetically.
Some flows are unchartable.

Stand on witches' hill at solstice time, and divide by zero.

Some acronyms, they say, must never be pronounced phonetically.
Learn the secret places where you may find the root.
Stand on witches' hill at solstice time, and divide by zero.

Think of Galileo, who the church had placed under house arrest;
Algazel, an old wanderer of the desert, chewing on balls of hashish, abusing the alphabet.
Dwellers in the stack traces,
worshippers of terrible Yagni.

Sometimes indeed the solution is in hard math
torn at great price from the hand of Athena.

Yet 100 lines of simple incantations
coming at the right time and the right order
can lift up the monoliths.

Coming at the right time and the right order
reveal the secret letters on the base of the long-resting stone
and so lift up monoliths.

The monoliths are also only in the mind.

Reveal the secret letters on the base of the long-resting stone!
Who were they that placed these questions here for us to find?
The monoliths are also only in the mind.

To devise automatons that will outlive us, to discover -- what modified alphabet?

Who were they that placed these questions here for us to find?
Because the shape of the key is less important than the shape of lock.

Remember, it is never the gate of nature that opens to science
it is "only" the gate of the mind.

I followed the white rabbit through the door in the stack trace.
The bottle had a cryptic label, and I drank.

I followed the white rabbit through the door in the stack trace.
The bottle had a cryptic label, and I drank and spoke with animals in my dreams.

The bottle had a cryptic label, and I drank.
Sometimes math is the key, but math is a language also.
And I can ask the as-yet-unanswered questions in any language.

The bottle had a cryptic label, and I drank and spoke with animals in my dreams
twisting, imperative, existing only in the mind.
The math is the key but the key is a question.

Open, then, the door
(twisting, imperative, existing only in the mind)
draw the chalk circle on the floor,
speak the ancient words,
open the gate.



