The Invisible College
May 2009



    "The key to creativity is knowing how to hide your sources." 
                    -- Einstein



At first, hard narrative in verse binding rock to sand
to birds, shore. The lookout shouted "land." But was it?
If reason is a continent, that island was a
whale that breached eternally but sank again as fast.
Atlantis? Whales? The narrative self-sustains
I thought. But then, apparently not.

If I had observed more closely
I would have realized the fragmentation was intentional.
Instead I took it as a symptom of the old familiar fear
that there are only a finite number of narratives
and that after I had told each one of them
not a halt but rather the absence of future.
"And," I thought then, "I can't live in the lack of
time moving endlessly forward erasing what is done
with the imagined being realized or not but 
without that process, what?"

"Instead I shall devise equations and solve them
endlessly producing answers.
The questions, the equations are incidental.
The answers to the equations are incidental.
We shall write them down or not.
We shall record the answers, questions,
                answers to questions,
		answer these questions or not.
At least it will not be known if we did or not.
It doesn't matter. But the process --
it is the process that lasts, sustains, matters.
No absence of future here."

But was that the threat?
Inside the fiery wheel,
the auto-zodiac which I interpret and distort:
these stars I guide that guide what guidance I will give
these imperfections in the dome of night.
Are those the stars by which I steered
when first I found this rock which we then named
"the hard iron of the real?" Not mist,
not fragmented imagining but imagination made real.

Though now, having seen the continents beyond that rock
I think differently, back on the day the lookout first 
shouted "land." Was it? And did we land?

Instead I think the same machine was shifting.
There is no continent, no stone, no ship
but I have erased the fear
of story's ending by removing
all the agents
and the sea.
Can there be future without agency? Yes, I think.
But there are arguments, narratives.
It is all subjective and
that was the fear, I think.
Come, return to narrative,
there is another chapter to the telling yet.

